---
layout: post
title:  "Reinventing Myself at 48"
date:   2017-05-04 09:47:00 -0400
---

I am learning to code at 48 years old. I guess it's really not that surprising when I look back on my life. I accomplished most of life's milestones later than most. I finished my Bachelor's degree 9 years after my high school graduation; received my Masters degree at age 33; got married at 41; and had a child at 43. So of course, why not do something wild and crazy like completely changing my career path at 48 by  learning to code? Sign me up! 

Well, it wasn't quite that simple where I woke up and decided I was due for another milestone. Nope. I was actually pretty established in my career as a management consultant with the employer I was hired by right out of graduate school. I had built a nice career over 9 years where I got to work for some wonderful clients, move overseas to Seoul for 2 years, and meet a handsome Marine who later became my husband as a result.  And that last benefit (and definitely the BEST one) is the one that is key in all of this. What I didn't know then was that being the spouse of an active duty Marine (or any of the military services) would eventually pose challenges to my ability to maintain the career that I had spent 9 years building. Military families have to move every 1-3 years to various locations in the US and abroad. This makes it very difficult for a working military spouse to continue his/her career when a service member gets stationed in a location where it is not feasible to continue working with the same employer or where the new location does not have a job market that supports doing so.

Three years ago this is the situation I found myself in. While my husband's career was on an upward trajectory, mine was suddenly stopped dead in its tracks. In 2015, the unemployment rate for military spouses was reported to be as high as 18%, which is more than 3 times the national rate. I was now one of many included in this statistic. And that was enough to convince me that it was time to shift professional gears. I needed to find something that was both professionally and personally rewarding that I could do no matter where my husband's career took us.

I am not sure when, where or how the idea of pursing a career in technology actually came to me. I think in some ways it was probably always there tucked back in the corners of my mind. Little hints may have revealed themselves here or there over the years like my affinity for writing DOS commands in my undergraduate computer course back in the late 80s or my amazement when I would see the developers I worked with take a client's requirements and actually create a functioning application on the screen in front of me. Pretty cool stuff! So like Hansel and Gretel, it was probably these tiny breadcrumbs that eventually led me to a beginning web design course during my first year of being unemployed. What struck me then about web development was the creative aspect of it. In a matter of minutes, I could write a few lines of HTML and CSS and actually *create* something! A website! I *really* liked that! Following that I took some online courses on Front End Web Development, Visual Design, and WordPress, and found that I really liked coding, and it continued to feed my creative juices. The more I read, learned and researched, the more it occurred to me that learning to code could open up a whole new world of opportunities for me to maintain my career, no matter where the Marine Corps sent my husband. More importantly, *if I can reinvent myself by learning to code at the age of 48, so can other military spouses.* It was an 'aha' moment. Not only do I want to do this for myself and my family, I want to become an example to other military spouses that software development is a viable career path to combat the unemployment rate among our community. 

So why do I want to learn software development? It certainly started with my hopes and dreams for my family and my own career aspirations, but it has quickly grown into something so much bigger than just me.
 
